mst/backup-types.md, before:

---
title: Types of backups in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Understand how Managed Service for TimescaleDB backs up PostgreSQL
product: mst
keywords: [backup]
tags: [backup, binary backup, logical backup]
---

# Backups in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
Timescale Cloud databases are automatically backed up, with full backups daily,
and a write-ahead log (WAL) continuously recorded. All backups are
[encrypted][avien-encrypt]. Timescale Cloud uses [`pghoard`][pghoard], a PostgreSQL backup
daemon and restore tool, to store backup data in cloud object stores. The number of
backups stored and the retention time of the backup depends on the service plan.

<highlight type="important"> 
The size of logical backups, and the size of the Timescale Cloud backup that 
appears on the Timescale Cloud web console differs, in some cases 
significantly. Backup sizes that appear in the Timescale Cloud web console 
are for daily backups, before encryption and compression. To view the size 
of each database, including space consumed by indexes, you can use 
the `\l+` command at the psql prompt. 
</highlight> 

## Differences between logical and binary backups
The two types of backups are binary backups and logical backups. Full backups
are version-specific binary backups which, when combined with WAL, allow
consistent recovery to a point in time (PITR). You can create a 
logical backup with the `pg_dump` command.

This table lists the differences between binary and logical backups when backing up indexes, transactions, and data:

|Type|Binary|Logical|
|-|-|-|
|index|contains all data from indexes|does not contain index data, it contains only queries used to recreate indexes from other data|
|transactions|contains uncommitted transactions|does not contain uncommitted transactions|
|data|contains deleted and updated rows which have not been cleaned up by PostgreSQL VACUUM process, and all databases, including templates|does not contain any data already deleted, and depending on the options given, the output might be compressed|


[avien-encrypt]: https://developer.aiven.io/docs/platform/concepts/cloud-security#data-encryption
[pghoard]: https://github.com/aiven/pghoard

Commit message:

updated to Managed Service for TimescaleDB

mst/backup-types.md, after:

---
title: Types of backups in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Understand how Managed Service for TimescaleDB backs up PostgreSQL
product: mst
keywords: [backup]
tags: [backup, binary backup, logical backup]
---

# Backups in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
Managed Service for TimescaleDB databases are automatically backed up, with full backups daily,
and a write-ahead log (WAL) continuously recorded. All backups are
[encrypted][avien-encrypt]. Managed Service for TimescaleDB uses [`pghoard`][pghoard], a PostgreSQL backup
daemon and restore tool, to store backup data in cloud object stores. The number of
backups stored and the retention time of the backup depends on the service plan.

<highlight type="important"> 
The size of logical backups, and the size of the Managed Service for TimescaleDB backup that 
appears on the Managed Service for TimescaleDB web console differs, in some cases 
significantly. Backup sizes that appear in the Timescale Cloud web console 
are for daily backups, before encryption and compression. To view the size 
of each database, including space consumed by indexes, you can use 
the `\l+` command at the psql prompt. 
</highlight> 

## Differences between logical and binary backups
The two types of backups are binary backups and logical backups. Full backups
are version-specific binary backups which, when combined with WAL, allow
consistent recovery to a point in time (PITR). You can create a 
logical backup with the `pg_dump` command.

This table lists the differences between binary and logical backups when backing up indexes, transactions, and data:

|Type|Binary|Logical|
|-|-|-|
|index|contains all data from indexes|does not contain index data, it contains only queries used to recreate indexes from other data|
|transactions|contains uncommitted transactions|does not contain uncommitted transactions|
|data|contains deleted and updated rows which have not been cleaned up by PostgreSQL VACUUM process, and all databases, including templates|does not contain any data already deleted, and depending on the options given, the output might be compressed|


[avien-encrypt]: https://developer.aiven.io/docs/platform/concepts/cloud-security#data-encryption
[pghoard]: https://github.com/aiven/pghoard
